---
layout: post_page
title: Paradox of Intelligent Financial System
---
Engineers around the world try to figure out a way to model the market via the assistance of big data. They mostly want to gather domain-related information from both private channel and public internet which the further decision making is based on. Just image an intelligent robot has read the internet and recognize the inner connection among both financial and non-finanical data and then find out which stocks are going to rise. Sounds great, right? Honestly, it's a little idealistic. In this page, I will personally analyze it in both macroscopic and microcosmic way.

In traditional stock market. The decision maker is always people. People read newspaper, hear from other people and so on. They always find a way to gain information whether it's correct and choose to believe it. They buy and sell stocks to make or lose money. The hard part is how to get as much as correct information as possible. There is a professional occupation called investment adviser. They are apt to make a profit by recommending stocks to clients for commission. If you are the client and choose to follow the recommended operation, you could make a fortune while price rise and sustain the loss. You shouldn't expect to earn money in every deal as the market is a stochastic system consitutationally. You have to think about it in a systematic way. If the market is steady and the information source of the adviser is reliable, congratulation, you get luck and vice versa.

There are several problems we need to make clear:


